#summary Links to download BridJ
#labels Featured
#sidebar TOCWiki
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

[http://jnaerator.sourceforge.net/webstart/JNAerator/JNAeratorStudio.jnlp You can try BridJ quickly] through [http://jnaerator.googlecode.com/ JNAerator] (just select "BridJ" in the "Runtime" combobox).

= Get BridJ =

It is advised to use Maven or sbt to manage dependencies automatically.

== Direct downloads ==

  * Download JARs : [http://code.google.com/p/bridj/downloads/list Downloads Section]
  * [http://nativelibs4java.sourceforge.net/maven/com/nativelibs4java/bridj/ Binary snapshots]

== Use with Maven ==

{{{
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>nativelibs4java-repo</id>
    <url>http://nativelibs4java.sourceforge.net/maven</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
	<groupId>com.nativelibs4java</groupId>
	<artifactId>bridj</artifactId>
	<version>0.4.2</version>
	<!--
	<classifier>c-only</classifier>
	-->
	<scope>compile</scope>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
}}}

== Use with sbt ==

{{{
import sbt._

class Project(info: ProjectInfo) extends DefaultProject(info)
{
  val nativelibs4javaRepo = "NativeLibs4Java Repository" at "http://nativelibs4java.sourceforge.net/maven/"
  val bridj = "com.nativelibs4java" % "bridj" % "0.4.2"
}
}}}

== Smaller specialized versions (Maven classifiers) ==

Optionally : choose a classifier (JAR filename suffix) that corresponds to a smaller trimmed-down of BridJ, if you're afraid BridJ is too heavy for you :

|| Classifier || C || C++ || Objective-C || COM || .NET || Windows (x86, x64) || MacOS X (universal) || iOS (arm) || Linux (x86, x64) || Solaris (x86) || Android (arm) ||
|| _empty_ || x || x || x || x || x || x || x || x || x || x ||  ||
|| `c-only` || x ||  ||  ||  ||  || x || x || x || x || x ||  ||
|| `windows-only` || x || x ||  || x || x || x ||  ||  ||  || ||  ||
|| `unix-only` || x || x || x ||  ||  ||  || x || x || x || x ||  ||
|| `linux-only` || x || x ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  || x ||  ||  ||
|| `macosx-only` || x || x || x ||  ||  ||  || x ||  ||  ||  ||  ||
|| `android` || x || x ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  ||  || x ||

Note that you can use the [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-shade-plugin/ Maven Shade Plugin] in your own project to strip away native libraries (in the `org/bridj/lib/*` packages) and classes (such as COM support in `org/bridj/cpp/com/*`) that you don't need. Take [http://code.google.com/p/nativelibs4java/source/browse/trunk/libraries/Runtime/BridJ/pom.xml BridJ's pom] as example.

= Platform notes =

== Android ==

BridJ works on Android/arm emulators (with the SDK `r10`), and probably even on actual devices (untested).

See this issue for progress [http://code.google.com/p/nativelibs4java/issues/detail?id=69 BridJ support for Android].

=== Including BridJ to a project ===

To include BridJ to an Android project, you should build your native library with the NDK and use an ant-based project (see sample below). 

You can then put `bridj-x.x-android.jar` into the `lib/` directory and add the line `jar.libs.dir=lib` to the `build.properties` file : BridJ will be in the classpath and will be included in your program.

=== Sample of BridJ on Android ===

A simple sample of BridJ use on Android was derived from the NDK's `helloworld-jni` sample. It is [http://code.google.com/p/nativelibs4java/source/browse/trunk/libraries/Runtime/BridJ/src/main/cpp/android-test/ available in BridJ's SVN repository].

Building upon the NDK's `helloworld-jni` sample, you can modify the helloworld.c file as follows :
{{{
#include <string.h>
#include <jni.h>

jstring Java_com_example_hellojni_HelloJni_stringFromJNI( JNIEnv* env, jobject thiz ) {
    return (*env)->NewStringUTF(env, "Hello from JNI !");
}

int addTwoInts(int a, int b) {
        return a + b;
}
}}}
And add the following BridJ bindings :
{{{
package com.example.hellojni;

import org.bridj.*;
import org.bridj.ann.*;

@Library("hello-jni")
public class BridJLib {
        static {
                BridJ.register();
        }
        public static native int addTwoInts(int a, int b);
}
}}}
You will then be able to use BridJ transparently in your activities :
{{{
TextView  tv = new TextView(this);
int a = 10, b = 100;
tv.setText(a + " + " + b + " = " + BridJLib.addTwoInts(a, b) + " (computed in BridJ-bound native function !)");
}}}

== Windows ==

C, C++, COM support is ok.

.NET support is non-existent.

== Linux ==

C, C++ support is ok.

== Solaris ==

Only Solaris x86 is supported (test hardware would be welcome !).

C, C++ support is ok, with some issues in endianness-aware reading/writing with Pointer.

== MacOS X ==

C, C++ support is ok.

Objective-C support is dramatically undertested and probably very poor. Help would be appreciated...

== iOS (jailbroken iPhones and iPads) ==

BridJ's support for iOS is not working properly yet, and relies on [http://jamvm.sourceforge.net/ JamVM].