#summary List of projects that use BridJ
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

Please keep in mind that [CreditsAndLicense BridJ is licensed under the BSD license], so anyone using it must state it appropriately in the documentation and/or other distributed materials (but there's no need to publish any modified sources, although it is good practice ;-)).

Here are some of the projects known to use BridJ internally (please post [http://groups.google.com/group/nativelibs4java on the mailing list] if you'd like your project to be listed here) :

= Released Projects =

== falplayer-android-j ==

[https://github.com/atsushieno/falplayer-android-j falplayer-android-j] (MIT-licensed) is [https://github.com/atsushieno Atsushi Eno]'s experimental Java port of [https://github.com/atsushieno/falplayer-android falplayer], a "repeatable OGG Vorbis player for Android".

It features BridJ-powered libvorbisidec / [http://wss.co.uk/pinknoise/tremolo/ Tremolo] bindings.

== JavaCL ==

[http://code.google.com/p/javacl/ JavaCL] (BSD-licensed) is an [http://www.khronos.org/opencl/ OpenCL] bindings library for Java.

It uses JNA by default but has a BridJ port available as the javacl-bridj Maven artifact.

== ScalaCL ==

[http://code.google.com/p/scalacl/ ScalaCL] (BSD-licensed) is an optimizing Scala compiler plugin + GPU-backed collections.

It uses the BridJ port of JavaCL.

= Upcoming Releases =

== StormMQ Myxi ==

" [http://stormmq.com/ StormMQ Myxi] is the world's first Message Queue as a Service using AMQP 1-0. 

We decided to use BridJ as it is the only professionally-supported, efficient product available today to seamlessly integrate essential C functionality with Java. Olivier Chafik, the main developer, provides first-class support and deep technical understanding. 

We've successfully mapped gnu libc and libpthread to allow us more fidelity and functionality on linux and work round Java's limitations with memory mapped files. "

== directx4java ==

[http://code.google.com/p/directx4java/ DirectX4Java] is a port of DirectX 10 and 11 for Java (under GPLv2) written by [https://www.masterbranch.com/developer/evandro.millian Evandro Millian].

It recently switched from JNA to BridJ to power its low-level COM interoperability.